Add documentation changes for Snapshot Status API (#8235)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/snapshots/get-snapshot-status.md

| Parameter | Data type | Description | 
:--- | :--- | :---
| repository | String | The repository containing the snapshot. |
| snapshot | List | The snapshot(s) to return. |
| index | List | The indexes to include in the response. |

Three request variants provide flexibility:

* `GET _snapshot/_status` returns the status of all currently running snapshots in all repositories.

* `GET _snapshot/<repository>/_status` returns all currently running snapshots in the specified repository. This is the preferred variant.

* `GET _snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/_status` returns detailed status information for a specific snapshot(s) in the specified repository, regardless of whether it's currently running. 

* `GET /_snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/<index>/_status` returns detailed status information only for the specified indexes in a specific snapshot in the specified repository. Note that this endpoint works only for indexes belonging to a specific snapshot.

Snapshot API calls only work if the total number of shards across the requested resources, such as snapshots and indexes created from snapshots, is smaller than the limit specified by the following cluster setting:

> - `snapshot.max_shards_allowed_in_status_api`(Dynamic, integer): The maximum number of shards that can be included in the Snapshot Status API response. Default value is `200000`. Not applicable for [shallow  snapshots v2]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/snapshot-interoperability##shallow-snapshot-v2), where the total number and sizes of files are returned as 0. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `snapshot.max_shards_allowed_in_status_api`(Dynamic, integer): The maximum number of shards that can be included in the Snapshot Status API response. Default value is `200000`. Not applicable for [shallow snapshots v2]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/snapshot-interoperability##shallow-snapshot-v2), where the total number and sizes of files are returned as 0. 
```

> Using the API to return state for other than currently running snapshots can be very costly for (1) machine resources and (2) processing time if running in the cloud. For each snapshot, each request causes file reads from all of the snapshot's shards. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the API to return the state of snapshots that are not currently running can be very costly in terms of both machine resources and processing time when querying data in the cloud. For each snapshot, each request causes a file read of all of the snapshot's shards. 
```

| Parameter | Data type | Description | 
:--- | :--- | :---
| repository | String | Repository containing the snapshot. |
| snapshot | List | Snapshot(s) to return. |

> | index | List | Index/Indices to include in the response. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| index | List | Indexes to include in the response. |
```

Three request variants provide flexibility:

* `GET _snapshot/_status` returns the status of all currently running snapshots in all repositories.

* `GET _snapshot/<repository>/_status` returns all currently running snapshots in the specified repository. This is the preferred variant.

* `GET _snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/_status` returns detailed status information for a specific snapshot(s) in the specified repository, regardless of whether it's currently running or not. 

> * `GET /_snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/<index>/_status` returns detailed status information only for the specified indices in a specific snapshot in the specified repository, for completed snapshots. Note that this variant works only for indices of a specific snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `GET /_snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/<index>/_status` returns detailed status information only for the specified indexes in a specific snapshot for the specified repository. Note that this endpoint works only for indexes of a specific snapshot.
```

> Using the API to return state for other than currently running snapshots can be very costly for (1) machine machine resources and (2) processing time if running in the cloud. For each snapshot, each request causes file reads from all of the snapshot's shards. 

Reviewer: @ltaragi: How would a user avoid returning states on snapshots that aren't currently running?

Author: Sorry did not fully get the question. The user can make use of the `snapshot.max_shards_allowed_in_status_api` cluster setting or indexes-filter to limit the cost of returning states for completed snapshots.

> Accordingly, the API call works only if the total number of shards across the requested resources (snapshot(s)/indices of a snapshot) is less than the limit specified by the following cluster setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snapshot API calls only work if the total number of shards across the requested resources, such as snapshots and indexes created from snapshots, is less than the limit specified by the following cluster setting:
```

- `snapshot.max_shards_allowed_in_status_api`(Dynamic, integer): The maximum number of shards that can be included in the snapshot status API response. Default value is `200000`. Not applicable for [Shallow V2 Snapshots]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/snapshot-interoperability##shallow-snapshot-v2), where the total number and size of files are returned as 0. 
{: .warning}

## Request fields

| Field | Data type | Description | 
:--- | :--- | :---

> | ignore_unavailable | Boolean | How to handle requests for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `false`, the request returns an error for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `true`, the request ignores unavailable snapshots and indices, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned. Defaults to `false`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ignore_unavailable | Boolean | How to handle requests for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `false`, the request returns an error for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `true`, the request ignores unavailable snapshots and indexes, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned. Defaults to `false`.|
```

> | ignore_unavailable | Boolean | How to handle requests for unavailable snapshots and indices. If `false`, the request returns an error for unavailable snapshots and indices. If `true`, the request ignores unavailable snapshots and indices, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned. Defaults to `false`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ignore_unavailable | Boolean | How to handle requests for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `false`, the request returns an error for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `true`, the request ignores unavailable snapshots and indices, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned. Defaults to `false`.|
```

| Parameter | Data type | Description | 
:--- | :--- | :---

> | repository | String | Repository containing the snapshot. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| repository | String | The repository containing the snapshot. |
```

> | snapshot | List | Snapshot(s) to return. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| snapshot | List | The snapshot(s) to return. |
```

> | index | List | Indexes to include in the response. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| index | List | The indexes to include in the response. |
```

Three request variants provide flexibility:

* `GET _snapshot/_status` returns the status of all currently running snapshots in all repositories.

* `GET _snapshot/<repository>/_status` returns all currently running snapshots in the specified repository. This is the preferred variant.

> * `GET _snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/_status` returns detailed status information for a specific snapshot(s) in the specified repository, regardless of whether it's currently running or not. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `GET _snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/_status` returns detailed status information for a specific snapshot(s) in the specified repository, regardless of whether it's currently running. 
```

* `GET /_snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>/<index>/_status` returns detailed status information only for the specified indexes in a specific snapshot for the specified repository. Note that this endpoint works only for indexes of a specific snapshot.

> Snapshot API calls only work if the total number of shards across the requested resources, such as snapshots and indexes created from snapshots, is less than the limit specified by the following cluster setting:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snapshot API calls only work if the total number of shards across the requested resources, such as snapshots and indexes created from snapshots, is smaller than the limit specified by the following cluster setting:
```

> - `snapshot.max_shards_allowed_in_status_api`(Dynamic, integer): The maximum number of shards that can be included in the snapshot status API response. Default value is `200000`. Not applicable for [Shallow V2 Snapshots]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/snapshot-interoperability##shallow-snapshot-v2), where the total number and size of files are returned as 0. 

Reviewer 2: Should "Snapshot Status API" be capitalized (unclear if it's the name of the API)? Is "Shallow V2 Snapshots" intentionally capitalized? It should be lowercase if referencing the general noun. "size" => "sizes"? Should `0` be in code font?

> Using the API to return state for other than currently running snapshots can be very costly for (1) machine resources and (2) processing time if running in the cloud. For each snapshot, each request causes file reads from all of the snapshot's shards. 

Reviewer 2: I'm not following these sentences. Do we mean "Using the API to return the state of snapshots that are not currently running can be very costly in terms of 1) machine resources and 2) processing time if you are running your [noun] in the cloud. For each snapshot, each request causes a file read from all of the snapshot's shards"?

Reviewer: This one stumped me as well. In my testing, the Snapshot Status API returns information on all shards. This rewrite sounds better to me but does it get the point across for you @ltaragi?

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS Please use the edited text in my comment above. Thanks!

{: .warning}

## Request fields

| Field | Data type | Description | 
:--- | :--- | :---

> | ignore_unavailable | Boolean | How to handle requests for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `false`, the request returns an error for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `true`, the request ignores unavailable snapshots and indexes, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned. Defaults to `false`.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| ignore_unavailable | Boolean | How to handle requests for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `false`, the request returns an error for unavailable snapshots and indexes. If `true`, the request ignores unavailable snapshots and indexes, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned. Default is `false`.|
```

| Field | Data type | Description | 
:--- | :--- | :---
| repository | String | Name of repository that contains the snapshot. |

> | snapshot | String | Snapshot's name. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| snapshot | String | Snapshot name. |
```

> | uuid | String | Snapshot's Universally unique identifier (UUID). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| uuid | String | A snapshot's universally unique identifier (UUID). |
```

:--- | :--- | :---
| repository | String | Name of repository that contains the snapshot. |
| snapshot | String | Snapshot name. |
| uuid | String | A snapshot's universally unique identifier (UUID). |
| state | String | Snapshot's current status. See [Snapshot states](#snapshot-states).  |
| include_global_state | Boolean | Whether the current cluster state is included in the snapshot. |
| shards_stats | Object | Snapshot's shard counts. See [Shard stats](#shard-stats). |

> | stats | Object | Details of files included in the snapshot. `file_count`: number of files. `size_in_bytes`: total of all file sizes. See [Snapshot file stats](#snapshot-file-stats). |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| stats | Object | Information about files included in the snapshot. `file_count`: number of files. `size_in_bytes`: total size of all files. See [Snapshot file stats](#snapshot-file-stats). |
```

:--- | :--- | :--- |
| shards_stats | Object | See [Shard stats](#shard-stats). |

> | stats | Object | See [Snapshot file stats](#snapshot-file-stats). |

Reviewer 2: Below: After "**total**": "size" => "sizes"? Additionally, should this be a bulleted list, and should the names of the stages be formatted so as to indicate that they are names? "`started`", for example? Also please verify the capitalization of the list items.

> | shards | list of Objects | List of objects containing information about the shards that are included in the snapshot. OpenSearch returns the following properties about the shards. <br /><br /> **stage**: Current state of shards in the snapshot. Shard states are: <br /><br /> * DONE: Number of shards in the snapshot that were successfully stored in the repository. <br /><br /> * FAILURE: Number of shards in the snapshot that were not successfully stored in the repository. <br /><br /> * FINALIZE: Number of shards in the snapshot that are in the finalizing stage of being stored in the repository. <br /><br />* INIT: Number of shards in the snapshot that are in the initializing stage of being stored in the repository.<br /><br />* STARTED:  Number of shards in the snapshot that are in the started stage of being stored in the repository.<br /><br /> **stats**: See [Snapshot file stats](#snapshot-file-stats). <br /><br /> **total**: Total number and size of files referenced by the snapshot. <br /><br /> **start_time_in_millis**: Time (in milliseconds) when snapshot creation began. <br /><br /> **time_in_millis**: Total time (in milliseconds) that the snapshot took to complete.  |

Reviewer: @natebower: Verified the cases and added a couple more fixes to this one. Let me know if the following suggestion works for you:

```suggestion
| shards | list of objects | Contains information about the shards that are included in the snapshot. OpenSearch returns the following properties about the shards. <br /><br /> **stage**: The current state of shards in the snapshot. Shard states are: <br /><br /> * DONE: The number of shards in the snapshot that were successfully stored in the repository. <br /><br /> * FAILURE: The number of shards in the snapshot that were not successfully stored in the repository. <br /><br /> * FINALIZE: The number of shards in the snapshot that are in the finalizing stage of being stored in the repository. <br /><br />* INIT: The number of shards in the snapshot that are in the initializing stage of being stored in the repository.<br /><br />* STARTED:  The number of shards in the snapshot that are in the started stage of being stored in the repository.<br /><br /> **stats**: See [Snapshot file stats](#snapshot-file-stats). <br /><br /> **total**: The total number and sizes of files referenced by the snapshot. <br /><br /> **start_time_in_millis**: The time (in milliseconds) when snapshot creation began. <br /><br /> **time_in_millis**: The total time (in milliseconds) that the snapshot took to complete.  |
```

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS I edited the suggestion a bit, so the text LGTM, but I still can't quite tell if this is intended to be a bulleted list. Should there be a colon instead of a period after "about the shards" that introduces bullets?

Reviewer: It supposed to render a bulleted list within the table. I'll adjust to a colon.
